Create rule S6954: Elements should not be empty or null (#3798)
SonarSource/rspec: rules/S6954/azureresourcemanager/rule.adoc

All empty or `null` properties that are not required should be excluded from the template samples.
This includes empty objects `{}`, arrays `[]`, strings `""`, and any property that has a `null` value.

== Why is this an issue?

Empty or null elements are usually introduced by mistake.
They are useless and prevent readability of the code.

=== Exceptions

> The top-level JSON template properties: `parameters`, `variables`, `functions`, `resources` and `outputs` are excluded from this rule.

Reviewer: Should the exception: Only on non required properties be added here aswell?

== How to fix it in ARM Templates

> They should be removed or completed with real code.

Reviewer: To be able to read it as a standalone sentence, I would suggest this:
```suggestion
Empty or null elements should be removed or completed with real code.
```

=== Code examples

==== Noncompliant code example

[source,json,diff-id=1,diff-type=noncompliant]
----
{
  "$schema": "https://schema.management.azure.com/schemas/2019-04-01/deploymentTemplate.json#",
  "contentVersion": "1.0.0.0",
  "resources": [
    {
      "type": "Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts",
      "apiVersion": "2023-01-01",
      "name": null,
      "kind": "",

>       "tags": {},

Reviewer: I would switch `tags` with `sku`, as `sku` is a required property for storageAccounts whereas `tags` is not.

Reviewer: On a second pass, this rule should only raise on properties that are not required as I understand it. `name` and `kind` are required properties, so it should not raise here. ( Same for bicep)

Reviewer 2: Ok let's change the example a little bit here.

      "dependsOn": []
    }
  ]
}
----

==== Compliant solution

[source,json,diff-id=1,diff-type=compliant]
----
{
  "$schema": "https://schema.management.azure.com/schemas/2019-04-01/deploymentTemplate.json#",
  "contentVersion": "1.0.0.0",
  "resources": [
    {
      "type": "Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts",
      "apiVersion": "2023-01-01",
      "name": "myStorage"
    }
  ]
}
----

== How to fix it in Bicep

> They should be removed or completed with real code.

Reviewer: To be able to read it as a standalone sentence, I would suggest this:
```suggestion
Empty or null elements should be removed or completed with real code.
```

=== Code examples

==== Noncompliant code example

[source,bicep,diff-id=2,diff-type=noncompliant]
----
resource exampleStorage 'Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts@2023-01-01' = {
  name: null     // Noncompliant
  kind: ''       // Noncompliant
  tags: {}       // Noncompliant
  dependsOn: []  // Noncompliant
}
----

==== Compliant solution

[source,bicep,diff-id=2,diff-type=compliant]
----
resource exampleStorage 'Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts@2023-01-01' = {
  name: 'myStorage'  // Compliant
}
----

== Resources

=== External coding guidelines

> * Azure/azure-quickstart-templates - https://github.com/Azure/azure-quickstart-templates/blob/master/1-CONTRIBUTION-GUIDE/best-practices.md#empty-and-null-properties[best-practices]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Azure Quickstart Templates - https://github.com/Azure/azure-quickstart-templates/blob/master/1-CONTRIBUTION-GUIDE/best-practices.md#empty-and-null-properties[Best practices]
```

All empty or `null` properties that are not required should be excluded from the template samples.
This includes empty objects `{}`, arrays `[]`, strings `""`, and any property that has a `null` value.

== Why is this an issue?

Empty or null elements are usually introduced by mistake.
They are useless and prevent readability of the code.

=== Exceptions

The top-level JSON template properties: `parameters`, `variables`, `functions`, `resources` and `outputs` are excluded from this rule.
Also required properties are excluded from this rule.

== How to fix it in ARM Templates

Empty or null elements should be removed or completed with real code.

=== Code examples

==== Noncompliant code example

[source,json,diff-id=1,diff-type=noncompliant]
----
{
  "$schema": "https://schema.management.azure.com/schemas/2019-04-01/deploymentTemplate.json#",
  "contentVersion": "1.0.0.0",
  "resources": [
    {

>       "type": "Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts",

Reviewer: As this is a `storageAccounts`, the property `sku` is also required. IMO opinion I would add it as well to the resource in both examples, as we once said to have running code examples that the user can copy paste.

      "apiVersion": "2023-01-01",
      "name": null,
      "kind": "",
      "tags": {},
      "dependsOn": []
    }
  ]
}
----

==== Compliant solution

[source,json,diff-id=1,diff-type=compliant]
----
{
  "$schema": "https://schema.management.azure.com/schemas/2019-04-01/deploymentTemplate.json#",
  "contentVersion": "1.0.0.0",
  "resources": [
    {
      "type": "Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts",
      "apiVersion": "2023-01-01",
      "name": "myStorage",

>       "kind": "BlobStorage"

Reviewer: > IMO it doesn't make sense to search for all required properties and put them in the code. I assume that if some property is required the expected value is not empty or null.

Ok, fair point. In that case IMO it makes sense to have the title a bit adapted. 
In the case of a required property that is null or empty we don't want the user to remove it, but to fill in real code (as also described in the How to fix it, and used for "name" and "kind" in the compliant example.)

Title suggestions: `Elements should not be empty or null` or `Empty and null elements should be removed or filled with meaningful code`
